# Sillydb
Sillydb is a database that exists because I wanted to learn how to write a (very simple) database. Currently, it exists in very simple form: it can only be directly linked into an application. The interface is in `db_interface.h`. It makes use of [SPDK](https://spdk.io/), a user-space NVME driver, to eliminate OS overhead and provide a direct interface to the SSD.

My intention was to eventually build a suite of features to treat a database like a Python object, or a JSON dictionary. Instead of making SQL queries, one could just use standard Python features e.g. `db.users[username] = {"username": username, "start_date": time.time(), ...}` or `users_to_bill = [user for user in db.users if user['used_paid_services']]`. These features aren't very scalable to large systems, but If I was careful and implemented the database in a performant way, the database could perhaps support hundreds of queries per second and terabytes of storage, far beyond what most startups or projects need.

Eventually I lost interest, particularly with how difficult it is to do async-based programming in C. Eventually I would like to write a small, idiomatic Rust binding for SPDK that uses Futures/async so I don't have to deal with this problem so much. This would also grant me access to a far wider set of libraries. The authors of SPDK [seem to agree](https://spdk.io/doc/concurrency.html#:~:text=Limitations%20of%20the%20C%20Language) that C is a poor language for asynchronous programming, but chose it for other reasons. Ideally more users could get the benefit of SPDK without the costs.
